

Group Meeting
12/3/2009

Time: 2.00 - 3.00 PM


- We reviewed Use-Cases, and put comments and discussed. But review did not complete.

- It was decided that everyone will share their review, and Architects will discuss and finalize use-cases

- We also voted and majority decided to add a usecase for 'create incident via button' as Hamed suggested

