_Features of our system will be listed and discussed here._
_All the features are listed here with their explanations._
_If you have any idea about any feature, click its name, write your idea as comment._
_Later, I will change the description of that feature, or remove it, according to the discussion._

---


= Features of the system =

== System features (before crisis happen) == 
===[RegistrationOfUsersInTheSystem]===
Volunteer are required to register themselves, so they can perform their role as a volunteer. There will be different communication modes through which a person has to provide certain information and he/she will be required to allow the Humanitarian Organization to contact when required.

===[DeactivationOfVolunteersFromTheSystem]=== 
All registered Volunteers will be able to opt-out from the system, and which can be permanent or temporary in nature.

===[NewIncidentsReporting]===
Crisis or incident can be reported by any person, which can be the citizen, volunteer, or manager of Volunteer Management System. Before entering such information into the system, ideally the Manager of VMS will have to verify the information received from the source. 

===[InformingAllAppropriateVolunteersAboutIncidents]===
Once the crisis is reported, system will perform appropriate operations. System will generate a list of volunteers appropriate to the location of crisis, and then generate notification for volunteers about the crisis. 

===[GeographicalLocationOfEachVolunteer]===
The geographical location of the volunteers is the most crucial part of VMS design. Using this feature, management of humanitarian organization can get several benefits by gathering location based information from volunteers.

===[AgeRangesOfVolunteers] ===
System will maintain the profile of each volunteer, so this may be used if management decided to take some decision on the basis of age of volunteers.

===[ListOrCountOfAllAvailableVolunteers]=== 
Different reports of total number of volunteers in certain area, can be generated on the basis of certain requirement.

===[CreatingListOfAlternateVolunteers]===
Built-in intelligence will be built so whenever additional resources of man-power is required, appropriate alternate volunteers can be called.

===[AvailabilityInformationOfVolunteer]===
System will keep timely record of the volunteers, so status of volunteer keeps available and change in volunteers location will be managed intelligently. 

==System features (At the time of crisis) ==
===[SendingInformationRequestsToVolunteers]===
During the crisis, system will act as an information gathering tool. With the help of Volunteer Management System the Location, age, gender, ethic, language and other information about the people in the crisis will be gathered.

===[ReceivingReplyFromVolunteersAndUpdatingSystem]===
Accordingly the Volunteer's response will be received and updated, so humanitarian organization can act on the basis of that information on time.

===[ReceivingAidRequestsFromVolunteersAndReplying] ===
In case of crisis, people always have different needs and humanitarian organization always try at their best level to provide an effective relief to people in crisis. Volunteer Management System will act as an effective source of information between volunteers and management, so needed things can be provided to save life.

===[SettingAppropriatePriorityOfInformationRequests]===
When large-scale crisis happen, its always crucial to know as much information as possible. But this usually take time. Volunteer Management System will gather information from volunteer on the basis of priority, so request information with high priority will be gathered first and then with the lowest priority.

===[DistributingDifferentQuestionToDifferentVolunteersForQuickInformationQathering]===
Another most important feature in Volunteer Management System, is to quick information gathering. System will distribute the task of information gathering as much as possible, so the time can be reduced. This intelligence can result in an effective response in case of crisis.